Let's talk about floats briefly that
was a little bit about strings.
You can see that string interpolation
works with not only strings, but
also with things like floats.
So here we have x is 1.1,
that's a float or a floating point number.
We have y which is 2.2.
Then I can say x times y is and
then multiply x by y and
it'll just insert the answer right there.
This will print out perhaps surprisingly,
x times y is 2.42.
And then a bunch of zeros,
not a four, but it may or
may not be surprising to
you depending on if you've
encountered the traditional IEEE
binary floating point operations.
So, basically this is done because
binary floats are very fast.
So, if you wanted to have this to give
you the expected answer that we would
expect from normal math, that would be
a significant performance cost because
modern hardware can do this
in like one instruction.
Whereas if you want to do decimal math, it
needs a lot more overhead than binary math
does like this when it comes
to floating point numbers.
So unfortunately, this is kinda what we're
stuck with weaving like the programming
community, at least when we want
really high performance stuff.
By the way, another thing to note is
that a difference between println and
main, so main is a function,
println is a macro.
So that's sorta what this
exclamation point means.
We're not gonna really cover
macros in this course,
but the main thing to know about them is
that macros are a way to do something that
works a bit like a function call.
But rather than calling the function,
it's sorta doing some code
transformation instead.
So what println is actually doing is it's
taking these arguments we're giving it
the println macro.
And it's going to translate them at
compile time into some number of other
function calls, like, for example,
stapling together these strings taking
the result of this multiplication and
then turning that into a string and
then concatenating it with a string and
so forth.
We're not
gonna define
our own macros
in this course.
Okay, let's talk about mutability briefly.
So here I've said let x = 1.1, x = 2.2.
Now this is a pretty normal looking piece
of code in a language like JavaScript,
in fact, this could be JavaScript
code like valid JavaScript code, and
it would work just fine.
An x would start off being 1.1 and
then it would get assigned to 2.2.
But in rust, that would not work.
In fact, you would get this compile
error cannot assign twice to immutable
variable x.
So in rust let works somewhat
similarly to const in JavaScript,
which is to say that once
you declare this value,
you're not allowed to reassign
to it when you've used let.
We'll see in a second a way
that you can make it so
that it's allowed to be reassigned to you.
But by default, you can't do that.
Now worth noting that in this
error message rust refers to
this as an immutable variable.
And they mean that they don't
just mean that x is const,
which in JavaScript means
that you can't assign to it.
But it's also that x is immutable, which
means that if x were a more complicated
type, like here,
we just have a floating point number but
if we had some sorta structure that
had multiple values inside it,
you would not be able to mutate that
structure like we would in JavaScript.
So in a sense, if this were JavaScript,
it would be not only const x but
also it would be assigned to something
like object.freeze where basically
it's saying yeah, this value right here,
not only can we not really sign up,
we also can't mutate it.
So that's what let does in rust,
it does both of those things.
Now, if you read the entire error
message you might have seen
the clue to how you can
make this thing mutable.
If you want, you can say let
mut being short for mutable x.
And then now not only
can you reassign x but
also you can mutate its contents
if it had a more complicated type.
Then you can see there's a little help
right here, make this binding mutable,
make it be mut x and
then it'll allow you to do that.
So, to sum up, let and
rust means both const and immutable and
let mut means neither const nor
immutable anymore.
So rust likes to have things be immutable
by default, which is why you need to add
this extra keyword if you want to
occasionally opt into mutation.
So in practice in rust programs,
it's way more common to use let than
to use let mut but from time to time,
I do find myself using let mut if there's
something that I want to make mutable.